Laminates
HyperMesh Help Manual
Home
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Laminates
Laminate entities define laminates, which make up a laminated structure by defining the stacking sequence of ply entities
that make up the laminated structure.
Search
What's New
Get Started
Tutorials
Interface with External Products
Entities and Solver Interfaces
CAD Interfaces
Browsers
Panels
Geometry
Meshing
Connectors
Model Build and Assembly
Model Verification
Crash and Safety
Model Setup
Morphing
Optimization
Conversion Between Solver Formats
XY Plotting
Post-Processing Analysis
Index
HyperMesh Help Manual
What's New
View new features for HyperMesh 2019 .
Get Started
Learn the basics and discover the workspace.
Tutorials
Discover HyperMesh functionality with interactive tutorials.
Interface with External Products
Solver interfaces supported in HyperMesh .
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Collectors and Collected Entities
Collectors are named organizational containers for collected entities. Collected entities are nameless entities which must
reside within one, and only one, collector. Collected entities are mutually exclusive to a collector.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Accelerometers
Accelerometer entities measure acceleration in the simulation.
Ale Fsi Projection
Ale Fsi Projection entities provide a coupling method for simulating the interaction between a Lagrangian material
set (structure) and ALE material set (fluid).
Ale Reference System Curve
Ale Reference System Curve entities defines a motion and/or a deformation prescribed for a geometric entity, where
a geometric entity may be any part, part set, node set, or segment set.
Ale Reference System Group
Ale Reference System Group entities used to associate a geometric entity to a reference system type.
Ale Reference System Node
Ale Reference System Node entities defines a group of nodes that control the motion of an ALE mesh.
Ale Reference System Switch
Ale Reference System Switch entities allows for the time-dependent switches between different types of reference systems,
that is, switching to multiple PRTYPEs at different times during the simulation.
Ale Smoothing
Ale Smoothing entities constraint keeps an ALE slave node at its initial parametric location along a line between
two other ALE nodes.
Ale Tank Test
Ale Tank Test keyword provides curve through an engineering approximation when control volume airbags only require
two engineering curves to define gas inflator and those two curves can be experimentally measured but the ALE inflator
needs one additional state variable - the inlet gas velocity which is impractical to obtain.
Blocks
Block entities are enclosed volumes represented by a "box" or block.
Bodies
Body entities define a kinematic assembly made of FE parts or nodes.
Boxes
Box entities are enclosed volumes, which are represented by a box.
Constrained Extra Nodes
Constrained extra node entities define and store the keywords *CONSTRAINED_EXTRA_NODES_NODE and *CONSTRAINED_EXTRA _NODES_SET.
Constraints
Constraint entities define kinematical constraints on a body at a specified node or point location.
Contact Surfaces
Contact surface entities define and store contact definitions typically used in contact analysis.
Control Volumes
Control volume entities define and store control volumes typically used in safety analysis.
Cross Sections
Cross section entities store cross section definitions used in a crash analysis.
Curves
Curve entities define and store xy data and are associated with a plot entity.
Dummy
Dummy entities are defined by bodies representing the different kinematic assemblies of the dummy.
Element Clusters
Element clusters are used to describe an assembly of elements for post-processing and failure control.
Failures
Failures describe material failure criteria to be coupled to material models.
Features
Feature entities track and manage certain geometric features.
Fields
Field entities store spatially varying values, which can later be realized (mapped) to the element and node data of a
new target mesh.
Groups
Group entities define and store interfaces and rigid walls typically used in contact analysis.
Hourglass
Hourglass entities define hourglass and bulk viscosity properties which are referenced via HGID in the *PART command.
Interface Component
Interface Component entities create an interface in interface file for use in subsequent linking calculations.
Interface Linking
Interface Linking Discrete keyword link node(s) to an interface in an existing interface file.
Joints
Joint entities define the kinematic relationship between two bodies (for Ball, Cylinder, Revolute, Slider joints) or three
bodies (for DoubleSlider joints).
Laminates
Laminate entities define laminates, which make up a laminated structure by defining the stacking sequence of ply entities
that make up the laminated structure.
Load Steps
Load step entities define and store load cases for a given analysis.
Materials
Material entities define and store material definitions for a model.
Mechanisms
Mechanism entities are the root of the hierarchy in the Mechanism Browser .
Output Blocks
Output block entities define and store solver output requests.
Parameters
Parameter entities parameterize FE entity and geometric entity attributes.
Plies
Ply entities define a FEA ply which is the FEA correlation to a physical ply.
Plots
Plot entities associate and organize curve entities within a xy plot window.
Positions
Position entities allow you to apply a Transformation sequence on set of nodes or SolverSubmodels.
Pretensioner
Pretensioner entities define pretensioners.
Properties
Property entities define and store 1D, 2D, and 3D property definitions for a model.
Regions
Region entities store information used to facilitate and automate modeling practices and processes. It enables a selection
which can be common across design changes or other models, provided region data is the same.
Retractors
Retractor entities define retractors.
Rigid Walls
Rigid wall entities provide a method for treating a contact between a rigid surface and nodal points of a deformable body.
In the LS-DYNA and Radioss user profiles, rigid walls can be created in the Model and Solver browsers.
Sensors
Sensor entities define and store sensors typically used in safety analysis.
Sets
Set entities define and store lists of entity IDs for entities, sets of sets, or lists of set IDs.
Slip Rings
Slip ring entities define sliprings.
Solver Masses
Solver masses are used to model lumped mass finite element mesh.
Tables
Table entities collect data points.
Tags
Tag entities tag a piece of information, called the body, onto a node, element, line, surface, point, or solid within
the model.
Terminations
Termination entities provides an alternative way to stop the calculation before the termination time is reached.
Titles
Title entities attach a title box with text to the modeling window , or to a node, element, load, or system.
Transformations
Transformation entities define solver transformations, and are used to define a transformation sequence in a Position
entity, to be applied on a set of nodes or on a SolverSubmodel.
Morphing Entities
Entities used for morphing the shape of FE model.
Optimization Entities
Entities used to set up optimization problems.
Control Cards
Control card entities create solver control cards such as results file I/O options, CPU and memory limits, and others.
Undefined Entities
Undefined entities are entities that will not be written to the solver deck.
Solver Encryption Entities
The encryption of solver entities is used to translate entity data into an undisclosed language.
Element Property and Material Assignement Rules
Element property and material assignment rules are based on the current user profile (solver interface).
Supported Cards
Supported cards organized by solver.
CAD Interfaces
Support provided by the CAD readers and writers.
Browsers
Browsers supply a great deal of view-related functionality in HyperMesh by listing the parts of a model in a tabular and/or tree-based format, and providing controls inside the table that
allow you to alter the display of model parts.
Panels
Pre-processing and post-processing tools are displayed on panels located at the bottom of the application.
Geometry
Create and edit geometry.
Meshing
Learn about the different types of mesh you can create in HyperMesh .
Connectors
Create connections between parts of your model.
Model Build and Assembly
Create, organize, and manage the CAE parts.
Model Verification
Perform automatic checks on CAD models, and identify potential issues with geometry that may slow down the meshing
process using the Verification and Comparison tools.
Crash and Safety
Tools used for crash and safety analysis.
Model Setup
Overview of how to build a finite element model.
Morphing
Morph the shape of your finite element model.
Optimization
Setup an Optimization in HyperMesh .
Conversion Between Solver Formats
Convert finite element models to another solver format.
XY Plotting
Study relationships between data vectors in results files.
Post-Processing Analysis
Learn how to use post-processing functions.
View All Altair HyperWorks Help
HyperMesh Help Manual
Home
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Laminates
Laminate entities define laminates, which make up a laminated structure by defining the stacking sequence of ply entities
that make up the laminated structure.
Search
What's New
Get Started
Tutorials
Interface with External Products
Entities and Solver Interfaces
CAD Interfaces
Browsers
Panels
Geometry
Meshing
Connectors
Model Build and Assembly
Model Verification
Crash and Safety
Model Setup
Morphing
Optimization
Conversion Between Solver Formats
XY Plotting
Post-Processing Analysis
Index
Laminates
Laminate entities define laminates, which make up a laminated structure by defining the
stacking sequence of ply entities that make up the laminated structure.
Ply Laminates
Define laminates which make up flat or slightly curved laminated structures.
Ply laminates stack ply entities. The stack direction for the plies of a ply laminate
is in the direction of the element's normal.
Figure 1.
Sub-Laminates
Similar to ply laminates in that they also stack ply entities. However, sub-laminates
define only a portion of a laminate rather than a complete laminate structure.
The stack direction for the plies of a sublaminate is defined by an interface
definition within an associated interface laminate. However, the ply order defined
within a sublaminate must remain in the defined order. An interface definition of an
interface laminate defines which ply of the sublaminate is on “top” and which is on the
“bottom” relative to the elements normal.
Figure 2.
Interface Laminates
Define laminates which make up complex laminated structures that wrap around
corners.
Interface laminates stack sublaminates. The stack direction for the sublaminates of an
interface laminate is in the direction of the element's normal. The exact stacking
sequence of the plies of the sublaminates is defined by the interface definitions within
an interface laminate. An interface definition defines which surface plies of two
sublaminates touch, or interface, with each other. Each sublaminate stacked within an
interface laminate must have at least one interface definition.
Figure 3.
Supported Solver Cards
Solver cards supported for laminates.
Abaqus Cards
If a laminate is realized, as many composite properties as needed are created to
represent the ply and laminate based definition. A ‘template’ composites property
(SHELL SECTION or SHELL GENERAL SECTION) has to be assigned all concerned elements
first, as the algorithm derives the new properties from the same.
The laminate name ends up in the LAYUP parameter of the Abaqus property.
Nastran Cards
If a laminate is realized, as many composite properties (PCOMPG) as needed are
created to represent the ply and laminate based definition. A ‘template’ composites
property PCOMPP has to previously be assigned all concerned elements. The PCOMPP
property is not exported.
OptiStruct Cards
Laminate realization can be used to convert a ply based model into a zone based
model. In this case the export state of all ply related entities (PCOMPP property,
PLY and STACK) will be set so that they are not exported.
To generate PCOMPG properties representing the ply and laminate definition, a PCOMPP
card has to be defined and assigned to the elements involved in the composites
definition before the realization is started.
Card
Description
STACK
Defines the stacking information and stacking sequence for
ply-based composite definition. Note: Bulk Data
Entry
Radioss Cards
The stacking definition of the property cards /PROP/STACK (TYPE17), /PROP/TYPE51, and
/STACK are represented as a laminate entity.
Samcef Cards
Laminates created will be selected in the definition of the composite properties
(.ETASHELL or . ETASOLID).
Create and Realize Laminates
Overview of how to create and realize laminates.
Create Laminates
Radioss
In the Model Browser , right-click and select Create > Laminate from the context menu .
In the Create Laminate dialog, define attributes
accordingly.
Option
Description
Type
Defines the type of laminate definition.
Name
Name of laminate.
Save as
Duplicate an existing laminate.
Card image
Card image of the property that will be linked with the laminate
(/PROP/TYPE17 > P17_STACK or /PROP/TYPE51 > P51_STACK), or will create
/STACK and /PROP/PCOMPP if card image LAM_STACK is used.
Color
Laminate color.
Laminate option
Only the Total option is available.
Define laminate
Select plies, and define the stacking sequence. Phi and Zi will
define the attributes of the same name in /PROP/TYE17 or
/PROP/TYPE51.
The stacking sequence can be modified at any
time using the Entity Editor .
You can
modify the stacking sequence of a set of defined plies at any time
by right-clicking on the laminate in the Model Browser and selecting
Edit from the context menu.
Click Create .
When you create a laminate entity via the Model Browser , a
corresponding property entity with the /PROP/TYPE17 (STACK) or /PROP/TYPE51 card
image is created, and assigned to the laminate entity. If you select the card image
LAM_STACK, HyperMesh will create the corresponding
/STACK keyword and the /PROP/PCOMPP property, and link the laminate with the created
property.
Figure 4.
If you create a property entity with the /PROP/STACK (TYPE17) or /PROP/TYPE51 card
image, you can manually assign the corresponding laminate entity in the Entity Editor , Laminate field, using the Laminate selector.
Figure 5.
Realize Laminates
Before you can realize laminates, a ‘template’
property must be assigned to all elements referred to through the ply and laminate
entities.
In the Model Browser , right-click on a laminate and select
Realize from the context menu .
A ply based model is converted into a zone based model. The realization algorithm
creates as many properties as needed (as a copy from the template property) to
represent the ply/laminate definition. Each region of the model with a unique set of
layers will get its own property.
-->
(c) 2019. Altair Engineering Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Intellectual Property Rights Notice | Technical Support