Load Steps
HyperMesh Help Manual
Home
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Load Steps
Load step entities define and store load cases for a given analysis.
Search
What's New
Get Started
Tutorials
Interface with External Products
Entities and Solver Interfaces
CAD Interfaces
Browsers
Panels
Geometry
Meshing
Connectors
Model Build and Assembly
Model Verification
Crash and Safety
Model Setup
Morphing
Optimization
Conversion Between Solver Formats
XY Plotting
Post-Processing Analysis
Index
HyperMesh Help Manual
What's New
View new features for HyperMesh 2019 .
Get Started
Learn the basics and discover the workspace.
Tutorials
Discover HyperMesh functionality with interactive tutorials.
Interface with External Products
Solver interfaces supported in HyperMesh .
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Collectors and Collected Entities
Collectors are named organizational containers for collected entities. Collected entities are nameless entities which must
reside within one, and only one, collector. Collected entities are mutually exclusive to a collector.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Accelerometers
Accelerometer entities measure acceleration in the simulation.
Ale Fsi Projection
Ale Fsi Projection entities provide a coupling method for simulating the interaction between a Lagrangian material
set (structure) and ALE material set (fluid).
Ale Reference System Curve
Ale Reference System Curve entities defines a motion and/or a deformation prescribed for a geometric entity, where
a geometric entity may be any part, part set, node set, or segment set.
Ale Reference System Group
Ale Reference System Group entities used to associate a geometric entity to a reference system type.
Ale Reference System Node
Ale Reference System Node entities defines a group of nodes that control the motion of an ALE mesh.
Ale Reference System Switch
Ale Reference System Switch entities allows for the time-dependent switches between different types of reference systems,
that is, switching to multiple PRTYPEs at different times during the simulation.
Ale Smoothing
Ale Smoothing entities constraint keeps an ALE slave node at its initial parametric location along a line between
two other ALE nodes.
Ale Tank Test
Ale Tank Test keyword provides curve through an engineering approximation when control volume airbags only require
two engineering curves to define gas inflator and those two curves can be experimentally measured but the ALE inflator
needs one additional state variable - the inlet gas velocity which is impractical to obtain.
Blocks
Block entities are enclosed volumes represented by a "box" or block.
Bodies
Body entities define a kinematic assembly made of FE parts or nodes.
Boxes
Box entities are enclosed volumes, which are represented by a box.
Constrained Extra Nodes
Constrained extra node entities define and store the keywords *CONSTRAINED_EXTRA_NODES_NODE and *CONSTRAINED_EXTRA _NODES_SET.
Constraints
Constraint entities define kinematical constraints on a body at a specified node or point location.
Contact Surfaces
Contact surface entities define and store contact definitions typically used in contact analysis.
Control Volumes
Control volume entities define and store control volumes typically used in safety analysis.
Cross Sections
Cross section entities store cross section definitions used in a crash analysis.
Curves
Curve entities define and store xy data and are associated with a plot entity.
Dummy
Dummy entities are defined by bodies representing the different kinematic assemblies of the dummy.
Element Clusters
Element clusters are used to describe an assembly of elements for post-processing and failure control.
Failures
Failures describe material failure criteria to be coupled to material models.
Features
Feature entities track and manage certain geometric features.
Fields
Field entities store spatially varying values, which can later be realized (mapped) to the element and node data of a
new target mesh.
Groups
Group entities define and store interfaces and rigid walls typically used in contact analysis.
Hourglass
Hourglass entities define hourglass and bulk viscosity properties which are referenced via HGID in the *PART command.
Interface Component
Interface Component entities create an interface in interface file for use in subsequent linking calculations.
Interface Linking
Interface Linking Discrete keyword link node(s) to an interface in an existing interface file.
Joints
Joint entities define the kinematic relationship between two bodies (for Ball, Cylinder, Revolute, Slider joints) or three
bodies (for DoubleSlider joints).
Laminates
Laminate entities define laminates, which make up a laminated structure by defining the stacking sequence of ply entities
that make up the laminated structure.
Load Steps
Load step entities define and store load cases for a given analysis.
Materials
Material entities define and store material definitions for a model.
Mechanisms
Mechanism entities are the root of the hierarchy in the Mechanism Browser .
Output Blocks
Output block entities define and store solver output requests.
Parameters
Parameter entities parameterize FE entity and geometric entity attributes.
Plies
Ply entities define a FEA ply which is the FEA correlation to a physical ply.
Plots
Plot entities associate and organize curve entities within a xy plot window.
Positions
Position entities allow you to apply a Transformation sequence on set of nodes or SolverSubmodels.
Pretensioner
Pretensioner entities define pretensioners.
Properties
Property entities define and store 1D, 2D, and 3D property definitions for a model.
Regions
Region entities store information used to facilitate and automate modeling practices and processes. It enables a selection
which can be common across design changes or other models, provided region data is the same.
Retractors
Retractor entities define retractors.
Rigid Walls
Rigid wall entities provide a method for treating a contact between a rigid surface and nodal points of a deformable body.
In the LS-DYNA and Radioss user profiles, rigid walls can be created in the Model and Solver browsers.
Sensors
Sensor entities define and store sensors typically used in safety analysis.
Sets
Set entities define and store lists of entity IDs for entities, sets of sets, or lists of set IDs.
Slip Rings
Slip ring entities define sliprings.
Solver Masses
Solver masses are used to model lumped mass finite element mesh.
Tables
Table entities collect data points.
Tags
Tag entities tag a piece of information, called the body, onto a node, element, line, surface, point, or solid within
the model.
Terminations
Termination entities provides an alternative way to stop the calculation before the termination time is reached.
Titles
Title entities attach a title box with text to the modeling window , or to a node, element, load, or system.
Transformations
Transformation entities define solver transformations, and are used to define a transformation sequence in a Position
entity, to be applied on a set of nodes or on a SolverSubmodel.
Morphing Entities
Entities used for morphing the shape of FE model.
Optimization Entities
Entities used to set up optimization problems.
Control Cards
Control card entities create solver control cards such as results file I/O options, CPU and memory limits, and others.
Undefined Entities
Undefined entities are entities that will not be written to the solver deck.
Solver Encryption Entities
The encryption of solver entities is used to translate entity data into an undisclosed language.
Element Property and Material Assignement Rules
Element property and material assignment rules are based on the current user profile (solver interface).
Supported Cards
Supported cards organized by solver.
CAD Interfaces
Support provided by the CAD readers and writers.
Browsers
Browsers supply a great deal of view-related functionality in HyperMesh by listing the parts of a model in a tabular and/or tree-based format, and providing controls inside the table that
allow you to alter the display of model parts.
Panels
Pre-processing and post-processing tools are displayed on panels located at the bottom of the application.
Geometry
Create and edit geometry.
Meshing
Learn about the different types of mesh you can create in HyperMesh .
Connectors
Create connections between parts of your model.
Model Build and Assembly
Create, organize, and manage the CAE parts.
Model Verification
Perform automatic checks on CAD models, and identify potential issues with geometry that may slow down the meshing
process using the Verification and Comparison tools.
Crash and Safety
Tools used for crash and safety analysis.
Model Setup
Overview of how to build a finite element model.
Morphing
Morph the shape of your finite element model.
Optimization
Setup an Optimization in HyperMesh .
Conversion Between Solver Formats
Convert finite element models to another solver format.
XY Plotting
Study relationships between data vectors in results files.
Post-Processing Analysis
Learn how to use post-processing functions.
View All Altair HyperWorks Help
HyperMesh Help Manual
Home
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Load Steps
Load step entities define and store load cases for a given analysis.
Search
What's New
Get Started
Tutorials
Interface with External Products
Entities and Solver Interfaces
CAD Interfaces
Browsers
Panels
Geometry
Meshing
Connectors
Model Build and Assembly
Model Verification
Crash and Safety
Model Setup
Morphing
Optimization
Conversion Between Solver Formats
XY Plotting
Post-Processing Analysis
Index
Load Steps
Load step entities define and store load cases for a given analysis.
Load steps are defined by selecting associated load collectors and output blocks.
Abaqus Cards
A load step corresponds to a *STEP definition in Abaqus model
history. Load collectors, output blocks and groups within a load step are exported under the
corresponding *STEP block in the Abaqus input deck.
Card
Description
*ADAPTIVE MESH
Defines an adaptive mesh domain and specifies the frequency and intensity of
adaptive meshing for that domain. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*BUCKLE
Obtain eigenvalue buckling estimates. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*BULK VISCOSITY (Explicit)
Modify bulk viscosity parameters. Note: History data.
*COUPLED TEMP-DISPLACEMENT
Analyze problems where the simultaneous solution of the temperature and
stress/displacement fields are necessary. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*DYNAMIC (Explicit)
Dynamic stress/displacement analysis. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*DYNAMIC (Standard)
Dynamic stress/displacement analysis. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*FILE FORMAT
Specify format for results file output and invoke zero-increment results file
output. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*FREQUENCY
Extract natural frequencies and modal vectors. Note: Defined in the load step
card image .
*GEOSTATIC
Verify that the geostatic stress field is in equilibrium with the applied
loads and boundary conditions on the model and to iterate, if needed, to obtain
equilibrium.
*HEAT TRANSFER
Transient or steady-state uncoupled heat transfer analysis. Note: Defined in
the load step card image .
*LOAD CASE
Begin a load case definition for multiple load case analysis. Note: Defined in
the load step card image .
*MODAL DYNAMIC
Dynamic time history analysis using modal superposition Note: Defined in the
load step card image .
*MONITOR
Define a degree of freedom to monitor. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*PRINT
Request or suppress output to the message file in an Abaqus /Standard analysis or to the status file in an Abaqus /Explicit analysis. Note: Defined in the load step
card image .
*RADIATION_ VIEWFACTOR
Control the calculation of viewfactors during a cavity radiation
analysis. Note: Defined in the load step card image ;
visible in *Heat Transfer analysis procedure.
*RESPONSE SPECTRUM
Calculates estimates of peak values of nodal and element
responses. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*RESTART WRITE
Save and reuse data and analysis results. Note: Defined in the load step
card image .
*STATIC
Static stress/displacement analysis. Note: Defined in the load step card image .
*STEADY STATE DYNAMICS
Steady-state dynamic response based on harmonic excitation. Note: Defined in
the load step card image .
*STEP
Begin a step. Note: Parameters are defined in the load step card image .
*VISCO
Transient, static, stress/displacement analysis with time-dependent material
response (creep, swelling, and viscoelasticity) Note: Defined in the load step
card image .
ANSYS Cards
Card
Description
ACEL
Specifies the linear acceleration of the structure.
ANTYPE
Specifies the analysis type and restart status.
CECMOD
CMACEL
Specifies the translational acceleration of an element component.
CMDOMEGA
Specifies the rotational acceleration of an element component about a
user-defined rotational axis.
CMOMEGA
Specifies the rotational velocity of an element component about a
user-defined rotational axis.
EQSLV
Specifies the type of equation solver.
LSSOLVE
Reads and solves multiple load steps.
NLGEOM
Includes large-deflection effects in a static or full transient
analysis.
NSUBST
Specifies the number of substeps to be taken this load step.
OMEGA
Specifies the rotational velocity of the structure.
OUTRES
Controls the solution data written to the database.
TIME
Sets the time for a load step.
Nastran Cards
Load step entities directly correspond to Nastran subcase
definitions.
Load steps can reference constraint (SPC), static load (LOAD), multi-point constraint
(MPC), fictitious support (SUPORT1), non-linear parameters (NLPARM), eigenvalue extraction
data (METHOD), frequency range (FREQ), damping (SDAMPING), dynamic load (DLOAD), thermal
loading (TEMP), and so on subcase definitions. Other input data is automatically generated
(the SUBCASE header) or may be added to the subcase definition.
Card
Description
NLSTEP
Describes the control parameters for mechanical, thermal and coupled analysis
in SOL 400 and for linear contact analysis in SOL 101.
SUBCASE
Delimits and identifies a subcase.
SUBCOM
Defines a combination subcase. Note: Automatically created when a new load
step of type “Combination Subcase Delimiter” is created. The SUBCOM ID matches
the ID of the HyperMesh load step entity.
SUBSEQ
Subcase sequence coefficients. Note: Only available for Combination Subcase
Delimiter load steps. Enable SUBSEQ to input combination
coefficients.
TSTEPNL
Defines parametric controls and data for nonlinear transient structural or
heat transfer analysis.
OptiStruct Cards
Loadsteps directly correspond to OptiStruct subcases. Load
steps can reference static loads (LOAD), constraints (SPC), and dynamic loads (DLOAD).
Supported card parameters are dependent upon the selected analysis type (solution
sequence).
Card
Description
ACCELERATION
Requests acceleration vector output for all subcases
or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select ACCELERATION.
ANALYSIS
Used in the I/O Options section to request that only
a finite element analysis be performed (optimization input is ignored). It may also
be used in the I/O Options or Subcase Information sections to identify the solution
sequence for all subcases or for individual subcases, respectively. Note: Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option ANALYSIS and then
select an analysis type.
CMSMETH
Requests that only a component mode synthesis solution
be performed and to select a component mode synthesis method definition to be
used. Note: Subcase Information Entry
CSTRAIN
Requests ply strain output for elements referencing
PCOMP , PCOMPP or PCOMPG
properties for all subcases or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select CSTRAIN.
CSTRESS
Requests ply stress output for elements referencing
PCOMP , PCOMPP or PCOMPG
properties for all subcases or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select CSTRESS.
DESOBJ
Selects a single response definition as the objective
function of an optimization, or to select system response definitions when the
objective function is the least squares sum of these definitions. The
DESOBJ command also indicates if this response is to be
minimized or maximized. Note: Subcase Information Entry Part of the optimization problem setup,
created when you define an objective.
DESSUB
Used within a subcase definition, to select a
constraint set that is subcase dependent. Note: Subcase Information Entry Part of the optimization problem setup,
created when you define a dconstraint.
DISPLACEMENT
Requests displacement vector output for all subcases
or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select DISPLACEMENT.
DLOAD
Selects a dynamic load to be applied in a transient and
frequency response analysis subcase. The DLOAD command can also
be used to select a user-defined loading curve to be applied in a nonlinear static
analysis subcase. Note: Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase definition DLOAD and
select load collectors with dynamic loading information (DLOAD, RLOAD1,
RLOAD2, TLOAD1, TLOAD2).
EIGVRETRIEVE
Retrieves eigenvalue and eigenvector results of a
Normal Modes Analysis from an external data file
( .eigv ). Note: Subcase Information Entry
EIGVSAVE
Outputs eigenvalue and eigenvector results of a
Normal Modes Analysis to an external data file
( .eigv ). Note: Subcase Information Entry
ELFORCE
Requests structural element force output and elemental
fluid particle velocity output for all subcases or individual subcases,
respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select ELFORCE.
ERP
Requests equivalent radiated power output for all subcases or
individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select ERP.
ESE
Requests strain energy and strain energy density output for
all subcases or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select ESE.
EXCLUDE
Selects a set of elements to be excluded from a Linear
Buckling Analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select EXCLUDE, then select a SET
definition.
FATDEF
Selects a FATDEF Bulk Data Entry
that will define the elements, and their associated fatigue properties, to be
considered for Fatigue Analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
FATPARM
Selects a FATPARM Bulk Data Entry
that will define the parameters to be used for a Fatigue Analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
FATSEQ
Indicates that a subcase is a fatigue analysis subcase
and to select a FATSEQ Bulk Data Entry that will define the
loading sequence for the Fatigue Analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
FREQUENCY
Selects the set of forcing frequencies to be solved
in a frequency response problem. Note: Subcase Information Entry Enables you to select load collectors with
frequency information (FREQ, FREQ1, FREQ2, FREQ3, FREQ4,
FREQ5).
GLOBSUB
Selects a subcase that references the global structure
for Local-Global Analysis and a set of grid points in the local structure that
defines the cut surface for displacement. Note: Subcase Information Entry
GPFORCE
Requests grid point force balance output for all subcases
or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select GPFORCE.
GPSTRESS
Requests grid point stresses output for all subcases or
individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select GPSTRESS.
IC
Selects initial conditions for Transient and Explicit
Analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
INVEL
Selects a multibody initial velocity set to be applied
in a multibody problem. Note: Subcase Information Entry
LABEL
Provides a subcase with a label. Note: Subcase Information Entry
LOAD
Selects a static load set to be applied in linear static
solutions. Note: Subcase Information Entry Enables you to select load collectors with
static load information (FORCE, MOMENT, PLOAD, PLOAD2, PLOAD4, LOAD), or
inertial loading information (GRAV, RFORCE).
MBSIM
Selects a Multibody simulation definition to be applied
in a Multibody problem. Note: Subcase Information Entry
METHOD
Selects a method for real eigenvalue
extraction. Note: Subcase Information Entry Select load collectors with an EIGRL card
image for METHOD(STRUCT) or METHOD(FLUID).
MLOAD
Selects a Multibody load set to be applied in a
Multibody problem. Note: Subcase Information Entry Enables you to select load collectors with
multi-body dynamic load information (GRAV, MBFRC, MBFRCC, MBMNT, MBMNTC,
MLOAD).
MODEWEIGHT
Defines a multiplier for computed eigenvalues that
are to be used in the calculation of the "weighted reciprocal eigenvalue" and
"combined compliance index" optimization responses. Note: Subcase Information Entry Part of the optimization problem setup,
created when you define a response.
MOTION
Selects a Multibody motion set to be applied in a
multibody problem. Note: Subcase Information Entry Enables you to select load collectors with
multi-body dynamic motion information (MOTION, MOTNG,
MOTNGC).
MPC
Selects a multi-point constraint set. Note: Subcase Information Entry
MPCFORCE
Requests multi-point force of constraint vector is
output for all subcases or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry
NLPARM
Activates nonlinear solution methods for this subcase
and to select the parameters used for Nonlinear Quasi-static Analysis, Geometric
Nonlinear Implicit Analysis, and Nonlinear Direct Transient Analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
NSM
Selects a non-structural mass set for mass generation. The
selector command must appear before the first SUBCASE
statement. Note: Subcase Information Entry
OFREQUENCY
Requests a set of frequencies for output requests for
all subcases or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select OFREQUENCY.
OLOAD
Requests the form of applied load vector output and
temperature load output for all subcases or individual subcases,
respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select OLOAD.
OMODES
Requests a set of modes for output requests for all
subcases or for individual subcases, respectively. This command is applicable for
normal modes and linear buckling solution sequences only. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select OMODES.
RESVEC
Controls the calculation of residual vectors. Note: Subcase Information Entry
RSPEC
References combination rules, excitation
degrees-of-freedom, and input spectra for use in response spectrum
analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
RWALL
Selects rigid walls for geometric nonlinear
analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
SDAMPING
Applies modal damping as a function of natural
frequency in modal solutions. Note: Subcase Information Entry
SOLVTYP
Defines the solver type to be used for static, dynamic
analysis and geometric nonlinear implicit analysis. Note: Bulk Data Entry
SPC
Selects a single-point constraint set. Note: Subcase Information Entry
SPCFORCES
Requests single-point force of constraint vector output
for all subcases or individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry
STATSUB
Selects a static solution subcase. Note: Subcase Information Entry
STRAIN
Requests strain output for all subcases or individual
subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select STRAIN.
STRESS
Requests stress output for all subcases or individual
subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select STRESS.
SUBCASE
Indicates the start of a new subcase
definition. Note: Subcase Information Entry
SUBCOM
Delimits and identifies a combination
subcase. Note: Subcase Information Entry
SUBMODEL
Selects a submodel as a set of elements. Subcase
entries specific to the selected element set can be used to solve the submodel
without affecting the rest of the structure. Note: Subcase Information Entry
SUBSEQ
Gives the coefficients for forming a linear combination
of the previous static subcases. Note: Subcase Information Entry
SUBTITLE
Defines the subtitle for all subcases or for individual
subcases, respectively.
SUPORT1
Selects a fictitious support set to be applied to the
model. Note: Subcase Information Entry
TEMP
Defines temperature at grid points or a
SET of grid points for determination of Thermal Loading and
Stress recovery.
TSTEP
Selects integration for transient analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
TTERM
Used in a geometric nonlinear subcase to define the
termination time. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry
VELOCITY
Requests velocity vector output for all subcases or
individual subcases, respectively. Note: I/O Options and Subcase Information Entry Enable the subcase option
OUTPUT to select VELOCITY.
WEIGHT
Defines a weighting factor (multiplier) for the
compliances of individual linear static solution subcases, which are used in the
calculation of the "weighted compliance" and "combined compliance index"
optimization responses. Note: Subcase Information Entry
XHIST
Selects time history output for geometric nonlinear
analysis. Note: Subcase Information Entry
Permas Cards
Card
Description
$CONSTRAINTS
Constraint variant bracket header line. Note: Set AnalysisProcedure to
CONSTRAINTS.
$FREQLOAD
Definition of frequency dependent dynamic loads for use in frequency response
analysis. Note: Only available when AnalysisProcedure is set to
LOADING.
$LOADING
Loading variant bracket header line. Note: Set AnalysisProcedure to
LOADING.
$NLLOAD
Define a nonlinear static load history. Note: Only available when
AnalysisProcedure is set to LOADING.
$SITUATION
Situation definition header line. Note: Set AnalysisProcedure to
SITUATION.
$TRANSLOAD
Definition of time dependent dynamic loads for use in transient response
analysis. Note: TRANSLOAD cards and FREQLOAD cards are mutually
exclusive.
-->
(c) 2019. Altair Engineering Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Intellectual Property Rights Notice | Technical Support