Plies
HyperMesh Help Manual
Home
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Plies
Ply entities define a FEA ply which is the FEA correlation to a physical ply.
Search
What's New
Get Started
Tutorials
Interface with External Products
Entities and Solver Interfaces
CAD Interfaces
Browsers
Panels
Geometry
Meshing
Connectors
Model Build and Assembly
Model Verification
Crash and Safety
Model Setup
Morphing
Optimization
Conversion Between Solver Formats
XY Plotting
Post-Processing Analysis
Index
HyperMesh Help Manual
What's New
View new features for HyperMesh 2019 .
Get Started
Learn the basics and discover the workspace.
Tutorials
Discover HyperMesh functionality with interactive tutorials.
Interface with External Products
Solver interfaces supported in HyperMesh .
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Collectors and Collected Entities
Collectors are named organizational containers for collected entities. Collected entities are nameless entities which must
reside within one, and only one, collector. Collected entities are mutually exclusive to a collector.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Accelerometers
Accelerometer entities measure acceleration in the simulation.
Ale Fsi Projection
Ale Fsi Projection entities provide a coupling method for simulating the interaction between a Lagrangian material
set (structure) and ALE material set (fluid).
Ale Reference System Curve
Ale Reference System Curve entities defines a motion and/or a deformation prescribed for a geometric entity, where
a geometric entity may be any part, part set, node set, or segment set.
Ale Reference System Group
Ale Reference System Group entities used to associate a geometric entity to a reference system type.
Ale Reference System Node
Ale Reference System Node entities defines a group of nodes that control the motion of an ALE mesh.
Ale Reference System Switch
Ale Reference System Switch entities allows for the time-dependent switches between different types of reference systems,
that is, switching to multiple PRTYPEs at different times during the simulation.
Ale Smoothing
Ale Smoothing entities constraint keeps an ALE slave node at its initial parametric location along a line between
two other ALE nodes.
Ale Tank Test
Ale Tank Test keyword provides curve through an engineering approximation when control volume airbags only require
two engineering curves to define gas inflator and those two curves can be experimentally measured but the ALE inflator
needs one additional state variable - the inlet gas velocity which is impractical to obtain.
Blocks
Block entities are enclosed volumes represented by a "box" or block.
Bodies
Body entities define a kinematic assembly made of FE parts or nodes.
Boxes
Box entities are enclosed volumes, which are represented by a box.
Constrained Extra Nodes
Constrained extra node entities define and store the keywords *CONSTRAINED_EXTRA_NODES_NODE and *CONSTRAINED_EXTRA _NODES_SET.
Constraints
Constraint entities define kinematical constraints on a body at a specified node or point location.
Contact Surfaces
Contact surface entities define and store contact definitions typically used in contact analysis.
Control Volumes
Control volume entities define and store control volumes typically used in safety analysis.
Cross Sections
Cross section entities store cross section definitions used in a crash analysis.
Curves
Curve entities define and store xy data and are associated with a plot entity.
Dummy
Dummy entities are defined by bodies representing the different kinematic assemblies of the dummy.
Element Clusters
Element clusters are used to describe an assembly of elements for post-processing and failure control.
Failures
Failures describe material failure criteria to be coupled to material models.
Features
Feature entities track and manage certain geometric features.
Fields
Field entities store spatially varying values, which can later be realized (mapped) to the element and node data of a
new target mesh.
Groups
Group entities define and store interfaces and rigid walls typically used in contact analysis.
Hourglass
Hourglass entities define hourglass and bulk viscosity properties which are referenced via HGID in the *PART command.
Interface Component
Interface Component entities create an interface in interface file for use in subsequent linking calculations.
Interface Linking
Interface Linking Discrete keyword link node(s) to an interface in an existing interface file.
Joints
Joint entities define the kinematic relationship between two bodies (for Ball, Cylinder, Revolute, Slider joints) or three
bodies (for DoubleSlider joints).
Laminates
Laminate entities define laminates, which make up a laminated structure by defining the stacking sequence of ply entities
that make up the laminated structure.
Load Steps
Load step entities define and store load cases for a given analysis.
Materials
Material entities define and store material definitions for a model.
Mechanisms
Mechanism entities are the root of the hierarchy in the Mechanism Browser .
Output Blocks
Output block entities define and store solver output requests.
Parameters
Parameter entities parameterize FE entity and geometric entity attributes.
Plies
Ply entities define a FEA ply which is the FEA correlation to a physical ply.
Plots
Plot entities associate and organize curve entities within a xy plot window.
Positions
Position entities allow you to apply a Transformation sequence on set of nodes or SolverSubmodels.
Pretensioner
Pretensioner entities define pretensioners.
Properties
Property entities define and store 1D, 2D, and 3D property definitions for a model.
Regions
Region entities store information used to facilitate and automate modeling practices and processes. It enables a selection
which can be common across design changes or other models, provided region data is the same.
Retractors
Retractor entities define retractors.
Rigid Walls
Rigid wall entities provide a method for treating a contact between a rigid surface and nodal points of a deformable body.
In the LS-DYNA and Radioss user profiles, rigid walls can be created in the Model and Solver browsers.
Sensors
Sensor entities define and store sensors typically used in safety analysis.
Sets
Set entities define and store lists of entity IDs for entities, sets of sets, or lists of set IDs.
Slip Rings
Slip ring entities define sliprings.
Solver Masses
Solver masses are used to model lumped mass finite element mesh.
Tables
Table entities collect data points.
Tags
Tag entities tag a piece of information, called the body, onto a node, element, line, surface, point, or solid within
the model.
Terminations
Termination entities provides an alternative way to stop the calculation before the termination time is reached.
Titles
Title entities attach a title box with text to the modeling window , or to a node, element, load, or system.
Transformations
Transformation entities define solver transformations, and are used to define a transformation sequence in a Position
entity, to be applied on a set of nodes or on a SolverSubmodel.
Morphing Entities
Entities used for morphing the shape of FE model.
Optimization Entities
Entities used to set up optimization problems.
Control Cards
Control card entities create solver control cards such as results file I/O options, CPU and memory limits, and others.
Undefined Entities
Undefined entities are entities that will not be written to the solver deck.
Solver Encryption Entities
The encryption of solver entities is used to translate entity data into an undisclosed language.
Element Property and Material Assignement Rules
Element property and material assignment rules are based on the current user profile (solver interface).
Supported Cards
Supported cards organized by solver.
CAD Interfaces
Support provided by the CAD readers and writers.
Browsers
Browsers supply a great deal of view-related functionality in HyperMesh by listing the parts of a model in a tabular and/or tree-based format, and providing controls inside the table that
allow you to alter the display of model parts.
Panels
Pre-processing and post-processing tools are displayed on panels located at the bottom of the application.
Geometry
Create and edit geometry.
Meshing
Learn about the different types of mesh you can create in HyperMesh .
Connectors
Create connections between parts of your model.
Model Build and Assembly
Create, organize, and manage the CAE parts.
Model Verification
Perform automatic checks on CAD models, and identify potential issues with geometry that may slow down the meshing
process using the Verification and Comparison tools.
Crash and Safety
Tools used for crash and safety analysis.
Model Setup
Overview of how to build a finite element model.
Morphing
Morph the shape of your finite element model.
Optimization
Setup an Optimization in HyperMesh .
Conversion Between Solver Formats
Convert finite element models to another solver format.
XY Plotting
Study relationships between data vectors in results files.
Post-Processing Analysis
Learn how to use post-processing functions.
View All Altair HyperWorks Help
HyperMesh Help Manual
Home
Entities and Solver Interfaces
A solver interface is made up of a template and a FE-input reader.
Named Entities
Entities which are given a name but are not collected or organized into containers.
Plies
Ply entities define a FEA ply which is the FEA correlation to a physical ply.
Search
What's New
Get Started
Tutorials
Interface with External Products
Entities and Solver Interfaces
CAD Interfaces
Browsers
Panels
Geometry
Meshing
Connectors
Model Build and Assembly
Model Verification
Crash and Safety
Model Setup
Morphing
Optimization
Conversion Between Solver Formats
XY Plotting
Post-Processing Analysis
Index
Plies
Ply entities define a FEA ply which is the FEA correlation to a physical
ply.
Physical plies manufacture laminates which make up composite structures. A physical ply has
attributes of material, shape (area), thickness, and fiber orientation; where its shape is
any complex flat pattern that can be cut from a roll of material. Similarly, a FEA ply is
composed of the same data attributes as a physical ply (material, shape/area, thickness, and
fiber orientation). The shape of a FEA ply can either be defined by closed lines or
approximated from the elements which most closely represent its actual complex shape. In the
case where plies are defined on lines, perform a realization to convert this information
into a definition by elements. Ply data defined on lines is imported from Catia Composites
Parts Design (CPD) data.
Plies defined by elements
The shape (area) of an FEA ply is defined by selecting elements which most closely
represent the complex shape of a physical ply. In Figure 1 , an
elliptical physical ply shape is defined by the brown line. The corresponding FEA ply
shape is defined by the gray shaded elements of the associated FEA mesh. Typically, if
an element's centroid exists within the bounds of the physical ply shape, that element
is considered part of the FEA ply shape.
Figure 1.
Plies defined by lines
Plies can be defined by selecting lines which build a closed area. If CPD data is
imported from Catia files, plies are defined on lines.
Once a mesh is available, plies defined by lines can be converted into plies defined
by elements by performing a realization. Realization/conversion methods include:
Project normal to target mesh
If the element centroid projected along its normal lies within the geometrical
ply definition, it is associated with this ply.
Normal by ply contour
Projection along a normal on a surface derived from the lines of a ply
contour.
Specified direction
Manually define a projection direction.
The ply thickness is typically defined as the final cured thickness of a single ply of
material. In addition, the ply can be made of any material: isotropic, orthotropic,
anisotropic, or any other material law.
Figure 2.
The fiber orientation of a ply defines the direction fibers lay within that ply. The ply
fiber orientation is typically an integer value between -90 and 90. The fiber orientation of
a ply is always defined relative to each elements material direction using right hand rule
around the elements normal, or thru-thickness direction, to define positive angles. Even
though a ply's fiber orientation is a constant integer, element material directions can vary
from element to element, and this allows varying fiber directions within a ply to be
modeled. Element material directions are defined differently from solver interface to solver
interface.
Figure 3.
Once all of the plies which make up a composite structure are defined, just as in the
actual hand-layup manufacturing process, plies are stacked in a specific given order within
the laminate entity to define a laminate of the structure. It is possible to stack plies,
whether they are defined based on geometry or elements.
Turn the display of plies on/off or change the way plies appear in the modeling window with the Ply layers display setting, which can be accessed
from the Mesh Display settings on the View Controls toolbar.
Supported Solver Cards
Solver cards supported for plies.
Abaqus Cards
The Abaqus solver has no direct match for a ply,
therefore the ply entity does not have a card image in the Abaqus solver interface. Ply entity names will end up in the
ply name of the composite properties SHELL SECTION and SHELL GENERAL SECTION, if
used in a laminate entity and realized into a zone based model.
Nastran Cards
The Nastran solver has no direct match for a ply,
therefore the ply entity does not have a card image in the Nastran solver interface. Ply entity IDs will end up as
global ply ID in the PPOMG property card, if used in a laminate entity and realized
into a zone based model.
OptiStruct Cards
The OptiStruct PLY card is represented as a ply entity.
Plies can be created from the selection of individual elements or from predefined
element sets which define the ply shape.
Card
Description
PLY
Defines the properties of a ply used in ply-based composite
definition. Note: Can only be created and edited in the Ply
Editor from the Model Browser .
Radioss Cards
The property card /PROP/PLY (TYPE19) and keyword /PLY are represented as a ply
entity.
Samcef Cards
The Samcef .PLI card is represented as a ply entity.
Create and Realize Plies
Overview of how to create and realize plies.
Radioss
Create Plies
In the Model Browser , right-click and select Create > Ply from the context menu .
In the Create Ply dialog, define attributes
accordingly.
Option
Description
Name
Ply name. This will define the prop_title attribute of
/PROP/TYPE19.
Same as
Duplicate an existing ply.
Card Image
Keyword used for the ply creation. /PROP/PLY if P19_PLY card image is used, or /PLY if PLY card image is used.
Color
Color of ply.
Dummy ply
Create simple ply without a card image .
Material Type
Type of material assigned to ply.
Material
Material assigned to ply. This will define the mat_ID attribute in
/PROP/TYPE19.
Thickness
Ply thickness. This will define the t attribute in
/PROP/TYPE19
System
Reference system used for the angle calculation of the ply. The
system is not linked to an attribute of the /PROP/TYPE19, but can be
defined by importing external composite data like FiberSim
information. This information will be taken into account during the
realization of the ply.
Orientation
Fiber angle on the ply. This will define the delta_phi attribute
in /PROP/TYPE19.
Integration points
Number of integration point through the ply thickness. This will
define the Npt_ply attribute in /PROP/TYPE19.
Drape table
Drape table to link to the ply. The drape table will not linked
to an attribute of the /PROP/TYPE19, but can be defined by importing
external composite data like FiberSim information. If specified, a
realization of the ply is needed to obtain the initial fiber angle
defined with the Radioss cards
/INISHE/ORTH_LOC and /INSH3N/ORTH_LOC.
Shape
Shape of the ply. The attributes grsh4n_ID and grsh3n_ID of
/PROP/TYPE19 are automatically generated.
If the shape is
defined by a line or surface, which may be the case when importing
CAD/CPD data, a realization of the ply is needed to generate the FE
element sets defining the FE shape.
Base Surfaces
Base surfaces to be used during ply realization. This is useful
when the projection of the shape is not found on a unique
surface.
Click Create .
You can edit a ply by right-clicking
on it in the Model Browser and selecting Edit
from the context menu .
Realize Plies
Realize plies when ply definitions need to be imported from external composite data,
such as FiberSim or CAD/CPD.
Before you realize plies, make sure the Radioss composite property card /PROP/TYPE17 or /PROP/TYPE51 is
assigned to the composite components on which the realization should be
performed.
During the realization process, the shape of the ply will be projected on the
selected FE mesh and, if drape information is available, the corresponding Radioss cards /INISHE/ORTH_LOC, /INSH3N/ORTH_LOC, or /DRAPE
will be generated.
In the Model Browser , right-click on the Plies folder and
select Realize from the context menu .
In the Ply Realization dialog, define realization settings
accordingly.
Note: For each case (FiberSim or CAD/CPD), a dedicated projection method is
proposed in the Projection options field.
Click Realize .
-->
(c) 2019. Altair Engineering Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Intellectual Property Rights Notice | Technical Support